to Al hany mmud he joins us from Dara
Bala hany bring us up to speed with all
the latest strikes that Gaza has been
experiencing yes well we just got uh
confirmed reports of at least 18 people
within the past 12 hours have been
killed across the central area and the
southern part of the strip that includes
the overnight attacks in Northern Gaza
on a residential home but Mainely
attacks have being con concentrating on
the N refugee camp that's in the
northern part of the the Northern
Western part of the uh west of the
Central Area New Waves of attacks on
residential homes and public facilities
just not only causing further civilian
casualties but also keep enforcing
people into enforce internal
displacement meanwhile in the southern
part of the strip particularly Al maasi
evacuation Zone that's been largely
designated by the Israeli military as a
safe zone for people to evacuate to have
been relentlessly attack and this time
we're talking about at least eight
people being killed inside the tents
that they built in order to protect and
take them shelters just protect
themselves and their children inside
these T Del maasi is a a narrow Coastal
part of the Gaza Strip on the western
part of the of the central area and the
southern part of the strip stretches all
the way from D bah City all the way to
Egyptian rafah borders and it's been a a
spot for the Thousand hundreds of
thousand of this place amilies been
Sheltering since the beginning of this
genocidal War what's going on right now
is the more we see of these attacks on
the rise it's just putting more pressure
on healthc care facilities across the
central area and the southern part of
the strip uh we're talking about Naser
hospital for example that has been
completely pushed out of service and
right now is trying to get back on track
with a few of the uh the insufficient
medical staff inside the hospital as
well as all the difficulties and
challenges invol in getting the hospital
back to on track but we're talking about
one only Hospital in the entire city of
hanun the situations are quite similar
in the central area we are here at the
courtyard of ala Hospital the only
remaining semi operational hospital that
lacks basically uh everything that is
needed and necessary to to save lives
and in order uh just to get a bit
picture of what's going on inside the
hospital we've been documenting things
for the past months inside for inside
the health facility here but to get a
better idea of how the situations are
inside the hospital we are uh joined by
Dr Jamal Mari uh he is a gener pediatric
uh surgeon as well as Dr Bushra Osman
general surgeon from panima that's a
part of a medical Mission from Australia
uh thank you so much for joining us and
maybe a better way to start uh uh this
conversation is to talk about a the uh
give us a general assessment of what's
going on in the inside the hospital
mainly like what is the situations uh
with the hospital in
Gaza my name is Jamal Mar I'm one of the
surgeons coming with Bima from Sydney
Bima is a
medical Palestinian Australian medical
doctors Association and we are coming to
help with uh relieving the teams and
help as much as we can and unfortunately
we were having
expectations but what we saw is well
well beyond what we expected basically
they got a hospital that
is uh helping uh or servicing a million
people supposed to be less than 200
before
and it just it's not they're not cing I
can't understand how they are going but
they got five theaters in in in the
operating theater five rooms and they
said they are theaters but honestly
they're just little cubicles refashioned
and done as theaters there is zero
supplies previous medical missions
brought their own consumables and
supplies to cover them for the couple of
weeks they come and relieve through and
we were denied bringing any medical
supplies so we are just depending on
whatever left over from other missions
or whatever left over in the hospital
and basically whatever disposable we
assume it we keep reusing reusing
reusing which is not safe at all I think
we should mention a little bit about
some of the injuries that we've been
seeing here I mean this is a hospital
that's stretched Beyond its limits and
most of the patients that are being
affected are exceptionally young kids
and um women and children so you know
some of the injuries we saw yesterday
shrapnel and blast injuries from
explosions massive chest wounds
esophageal and lung injuries major
abdominal trauma um young kids as young
as 18 months old who've been martyred in
explosions severe burns throughout their
bodies none of these patients can go to
the Intensive Care to get appropriate
treatment because the hospital is
understaffed um under supplied and
there's just not enough to go around in
terms of resources the teams here are
stretched beyond their limits so these
are teams that have been working for
over 260 days straight um and we'd
highly encourage teams from elsewhere to
come and help support the healthcare
workers here I know this is your first
time as part of a medical Mission from
Australia and you're probably
overwhelmed by what you have seen
already but can you briefly just share
with us your experience and how has your
work been so far within the past few
days I think first of all you know the
nature of the work in terms of general
and trauma surgery doesn't necessarily
um differ too much from overse but the
amounts that we're seeing here are
Beyond imaginable uh in terms of
quantities of numbers um and from a
second perspective I suppose there's a
lot of emotional attachment um and
repercussions to the the situations that
we're witnessing so you know when you
witness young kids who've been murdered
from both parents who have no home to go
to uh when patients have finished their
care they they go back to a tent or they
don't have ability to get wound care
these are things that we just wouldn't
expect or want to inflict on anyone in
any part of the world and we're just not
able to provide the care that they
require here today yeah Dr Jamal just
given your expertise I want to know your
your assessment on what are the M major
medical needs needed right now I would
say everything is needed Staffing wise
people here were going on for 9 months
underst staffed they're really stretched
emotionally drained physically drained
they're just
cobbing and uh that's Staffing wise
consumables theaters again we had to
operate in a difficult situations
without electricity it comes and goes
and when it goes it's just like for 5 10
minutes we had to use the mobile torches
to continue operating of course if that
was a critical moment with bleeding or
something that would be very very
serious for the
patients uh overcrowding is a big big
issue people has to queue to come to
theater they have to wait like 2 to 3
days just to get their wounds looked at
or dressing
changed medical team wise they're just
cobbing there's no plastic there's no
vascular surgeon there's no neurosurgeon
spine fixation is a big issue of course
we're dealing with multi trauma where
people have injuries everywhere
yesterday we did a labom for a stomach
perforation and he had arm amputation he
had combined fracture of his both legs
and really they need multi multi
disciplinary teams to manage to be able
to manage their conditions here we don't
have any resources anybody can just
general surgeons has to cover for
everything pediatric surgery is a big
issue as well we had an unit with
necrotizing interus we just managed to
to operation but unfortunately she did
not survive she was 1 and a half kilos
really in big centers they will hardly
survive she didn't survive with us
although we operated but yeah the
mortality rates here in intensive care
are 100% so you know in any situations
normally we would do these major
operations and then be able to provide
one-on-one care for these patients that
does that cannot occur here uh these
patients are getting extubated and then
going to the ward they're being looked
after by family members there's not
enough nurses and staff to help
distribute medications there's not
enough medications there's no supplies
to change wounds on the wards so on a
systems and microscopic level this
Healthcare System needs huge reform Dr
Jamal Dr bsh thank you so much for your
Insight thank you thank you uh so as we
heard from both Dr Jamal and uh Dr
Bushra the situations are quite dire
inside the hospital alaka hospital is a
representative sample of what's going on
of this of this difficulties including
the uh the insufficient medical staff
the kind of cases that they had to deal
with the the acute shortage of medical
supplies that making even their work it
quite difficult given the lack of of
resources Han Mahmud reporting there on
the situation inside Al AXA Hospital in
Dar alala thanks very much
hany make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz